docs: add introduction and new AsyncAPI document (#812)
asyncapi/generator: docs/index.md

title: "Introduction"
weight: 10
---

> The AsyncAPI Generator is a tool that generates anything you want using the **[AsyncAPI file](asyncapi-file.md)** and **[template](template.md)** that are supplied as inputs to the AsyncAPI Generator CLI. The Generator was built with extensibility in mind; you can use the generator to generate anything you want provided that it can be defined in a template, such as code, diagrams, markdown files, microservices and applications for example. A number of [community-maintained templates](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate) are now available for immediate usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AsyncAPI Generator is a tool that generates anything you want using the **[AsyncAPI file](asyncapi-file.md)** and **[template](template.md)** that are supplied as inputs to the AsyncAPI Generator CLI. The Generator was built with extensibility in mind; you can use the generator to generate anything you want provided that it can be defined in a template, such as code, diagrams, markdown files, microservices, and applications. A number of [community-maintained templates](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate) are now available for immediate usage.
```

> ### Use Cases of the Generator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generator use cases 
```

> - Generation of interactive and understandable API documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Generation of interactive and understandable API documentation
```

Consistency is key... since we don't use punctuation in the rest of the bullet points then let's remove this single period ✌🏽

> - Generation of APIs'client libraries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Generation of APIs' client libraries
```

- Generation of APIs' boilerplate code

> ### Advantages of Using the Generator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generator advantages
```

- Quick set up and easy to use on a regular basis
- Effortless generation of complex documents
- List of readily available AsyncAPI templates
- Support for render engines such as React and Nunjucks

> ### The Generation Process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generation process
```

1. The **Generator** receives the **[template](template.md)** and **[AsyncAPI file](asyncapi-file.md)** as inputs. 

> 2. The **Generator** then sends to the **[Parser](parser.md)** the stringified version of the original specification file in order to validate the JSON/YAML **AsyncAPI file**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The **Generator** sends to the **[Parser](parser.md)** the stringified version of the original specification file in order to validate the JSON/YAML **AsyncAPI file**.
```

> 3. The **parser** uses additional plugins such as the OpenAPI, RAML, or Avro schemas to validate custom schemas of messages' payloads defined in the **AsyncAPI file**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The **parser** uses additional plugins such as the OpenAPI, RAML, or Avro schemas to validate custom schemas of message payloads defined in the **AsyncAPI file**.
```

4. If the **parser** determines that the original **AsyncAPI file** is valid, it then manipulates the original JSON/YAML **AsyncAPI file** and returns functions and properties that enable easier access to file contents, bundling them together into an **asyncapi**(asyncapiDocument). 
5. At this point, the **generator** passes the **asyncapi**, the **originalAsyncAPI**, and the **params** which collectively make up the **[template context](asyncapi-context.md)** to the **render engine**. 

> 6. AsyncAPI has two **render engines**([react](react-render-engine.md) and [nunjucks](nunjucks-render-engine.md)) and depending on whichever one of them you've specified in your `package.json` the generator will be able to know the right render engine to pass the **template files** and the **template context** to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. AsyncAPI has two **render engines**([react](react-render-engine.md) and [nunjucks](nunjucks-render-engine.md)). Depending on which one you've specified in your `package.json`, the generator knows the right render engine to pass both the **template files** and the **template context**.
```

> 7. Once the **render engine** receives the **template files** and the **template context**, it will inject all the dynamic values in your react or nunjucks based **template files** using the **template context**. As a result, the render engine will generates **markdown**, **pdf**, **boilerplate code** and **anything else** you specified to be generated as output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Once the **render engine** receives the **template files** and the **template context**, it injects all the dynamic values in your react or nunjucks based **template files** using the **template context**. As a result, the render engine generates **markdown**, **pdf**, **boilerplate code**, and **anything else** you specified to be generated as output.
```

> :bulb: **Remember:** 
> You can generate anything you want using the Generator as long as it can be defined in a **template**.

> The diagram below depicts the entire process of passing the **template** and **AsyncAPI file** as parameters to the AsyncAPI Generator CLI tool, how the Generator uses these inputs to generate the desired output and examples of output you can get from the render engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagram below depicts the entire process of passing the **template** and **AsyncAPI file** as parameters to the AsyncAPI Generator CLI tool, how the Generator uses these inputs to generate the desired output, and example outputs you can get from the render engine.
```

title: "Introduction"
weight: 10

> ---

Reviewer 2: hey @derberg heres the intro i had in mind. what do you think about it?

AsyncAPI Generator is a fast, feature-packed and ready to use Javascript based Npm library. We can use the
generator to generate whatever we want based on the AsyncAPI specification file. Generator has been built with 
extensibility in mind. You can generate anything out of it. Among other things, it can be used 
for generating code, documentation, diagrams, markdown files, microservices and applications. AsyncAPI offers a 
library of Templates which can be used to start generating code and docs immediately.

> ---

Reviewer 2: I also think we should target the "what", "how" and "when" of the generator tool. 
The above text when finalised will decide What generator tool is?
@Florence-Njeri already has some awesome content regarding how generator works (generation process and related diags)

Do you think a section for How generator is useful makes sense in the intro document?🤔

Something like this:

> ---

Reviewer 2: Generator helps organizations and developers speed up their project by automating the code and documentation generation process. Generator simplifies the generation process by providing us with a set of tools which help us produce our desired output in just a few steps! Generator promotes reusability. Once you have the AsyncAPI input file ready, you get access to multiple Templates. With minimum modification, you can generate code and documentation for different frameworks and languages.

Benefits of using Generator:

- Quick set up and easy to use on a regular basis
- Effortless generation of complex documents
- List of readily available AsyncAPI templates
- Support for render engines such as React and Nunjucks

cc: @Florence-Njeri @derberg

weight: 10
---

> The AsyncAPI Generator is a tool that generates anything you want using the **[AsyncAPI file](asyncapi-file.md)** and **[template](template.md)** that are supplied as inputs to the AsyncAPI Generator CLI. The Generator was built with extensibility in mind; you can use the generator to generate anything you want provided that it can be defined in a template, such as code, diagrams, markdown files, microservices, and applications. A number of [community-maintained templates](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate) are now available for immediate usage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The AsyncAPI Generator is a tool that generates anything you want using the **[AsyncAPI document](asyncapi-file.md)** and **[template](template.md)** that are supplied as inputs to the AsyncAPI Generator. The Generator was built with extensibility in mind; you can use the generator to generate anything you want, provided that it can be defined in a template, such as code, diagrams, markdown files, microservices, and applications. A number of [community-maintained templates](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aasyncapi+topic%3Agenerator+topic%3Atemplate) are now available for immediate usage.
```

### Generator use cases 
- Generation of interactive and understandable API documentation
- Generation of APIs' client libraries
- Generation of APIs' boilerplate code

### Generator advantages
- Quick set up and easy to use on a regular basis
- Effortless generation of complex documents

> - List of readily available AsyncAPI templates

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Number of AsyncAPI templates
```

> - Support for render engines such as React and Nunjucks

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

I would not use it as advantage, especially that we actually do not like Nunjucks and want to get rid of it 😄

### Generation process

> 1. The **Generator** receives the **[template](template.md)** and **[AsyncAPI file](asyncapi-file.md)** as inputs. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. The **Generator** receives the **[template](template.md)** and **[AsyncAPI document](asyncapi-file.md)** as inputs. 
```

> 2. The **Generator** sends to the **[Parser](parser.md)** the stringified version of the original specification file in order to validate the JSON/YAML **AsyncAPI file**.

Reviewer 3: please adjust all step as I suggested for the other document:
- AsyncAPI file to AsyncAPI document
- use proper cases when referring to items from diagram. So for example if diagram says `Parser` then also write `Parser` in all steps with first capital letter

6. AsyncAPI has two **render engines**([react](react-render-engine.md) and [nunjucks](nunjucks-render-engine.md)). Depending on which one you've specified in your `package.json`, the generator knows the right render engine to pass both the **template files** and the **template context**.
7. Once the **render engine** receives the **template files** and the **template context**, it injects all the dynamic values in your react or nunjucks based **template files** using the **template context**. As a result, the render engine generates **markdown**, **pdf**, **boilerplate code**, and **anything else** you specified to be generated as output.

> You can generate anything you want using the Generator as long as it can be defined in a **template**.

The diagram below depicts the entire process of passing the **template** and **AsyncAPI file** as parameters to the AsyncAPI Generator CLI tool, how the Generator uses these inputs to generate the desired output, and example outputs you can get from the render engine.

``` mermaid
graph LR
    A[Template Context]
    B{Generator}
    C[Parser]
    D[Render Engine]

>     E[AsyncAPI File] --> B

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    E[AsyncAPI Document] --> B
```
